project 1 : electronic weighing machine

The purpose of this project is to make a weighing machine to measure the weight of electronic components , thus callibrated in grams
the callibration can be reset after each measurement 
components used :
Hardware components
Arduino UNO	
Arduino UNO
3Kg Load Cell
Standard LCD - 16x2 White on Blue	
Adafruit Standard LCD - 16x2 White on Blue
I2C LCD Module
Software apps and online services
Arduino IDE	
comments : coding is part is critical

project 2:Metal detector circuit

to make a simple metal detector using simple components and a LC loop
a copper loop with 140 turns is used . if the loop is near to a metal , current is induced in the loop , which results in an output from the proximity sensor 
and the buzzer is turned on.
Components Required
1 x TDA0161 Proximity Detector IC
2 x 47nF Capacitors (Ceramic Capacitor code 473)
1 x 1 KΩ Resistor (1/4 Watt)
1 x 330 Ω Resistor (1/4 Watt)
1 x 100 Ω Resistor (1/4 Watt)
1 x 5 KΩ Potentiometer
1 x 2N2222A (NPN Transistor)
1 x 5V Buzzer
Coil (copper wire of 26 – 30 AWG is taken and it is wound in to a coil of diamater 5 – 6 cm and 140 – 150 turns)
Additional Components (for LED)
1 x 220 Ω Resistor (1/4 Watt)
1 x 5mm LED

project 3 : Car parking gaurd circuit using infrared sensor

The IR sensor will detect the obstacle with in 100cm, if there is any obstacle it will sense and give information
to the tone detector which will enable the LM555 timer to generate a PWM for the buzzer. The LM555 will generate the 
pulse which helps to buzz the buzzer so driver can understand that there is an obstacle.

the complete circuitry will be attached to the back bumper and placed at the center. The buzzer and led should be
placed on the dash board for visibility of light and hearing purpose for the driver.

components: 
IR sensor 
LM555 timer 
LM567 tone detector
Photo Darlington Transistor
LED
Piezzo buzzer


profect 4: Smart Irrigation | Capacitive soil moisture sensor 

componentss
Wemos D1 mini Shields
Wemos SD shield
Wemos Relays shield
Jumper wires (generic)	
Jumper wires (generic)
Capactive soil moisture sensor
Wemos Triple base
Transformer
Seaflow350 pump
PVC pipes
USB-A to Mini-USB Cable	
USB-A to Mini-USB Cable
Software apps and online services:
Autodesk AutoCAD
Cura
Solidworks
Tinkercad
Lasercut
Makercase
Arduino IDE	
Arduino IDE

It is often noticed in many parks that most of the plants are not properly wet.In case of too wet 
water waste is high and consequently the cost of irrigation is high.To solve that we planned to make a device
that controls the irrigating system properly. So that there is no over watering and all plants
get the "required" amount of water.

wemos is able to control the pump in order to turn it on and off at the most suitable time, referring to the 
humidity of the soil in which the sensor is positioned.The system can be controlled via a telegram bot that allows us to know the humidity of the
soil when we request it,whether the pump is running or not.


project 5: Rain alarm project

Rain water detector will detect the rain and make an alert; rain water detector is used in the irrigation field, home automation, communication, automobiles etc

If there is no rain, the resistance between the contacts will be very high as there will be no conduction between the wires in the sensor.
If there is rain, the water drops will fall on the rain sensor, which will form a conductive path between the wires and it also decreases
the resistance between the contacts.As a result, the wires on the sensor board will conduct and trigger the NE555 timer through the transistors circuitry.
Once NE555 is triggered, it will make the output pin high and which will make the buzzer to make alarm.

components:
Small Rain Sensor
 555 Timer IC
 BC548 NPN Transistor
 2N2222 NPN Transistor
 Bright White LED
 1N4007 PN Junction Diode
 Resistor (1/4 Watt)
 Capacitor (Polarized)
 10nF Ceramic Capacitor (Code – 103)
 100pF Ceramic Capacitor (Code – 101)
 Buzzer 
 
 
 project 6:Internet Controlled RC Car with HD Video Using Raspberry Pi
 components
Raspberry Pi 4 Model B	
Flash Memory Card, MicroSD Card
16 GB+
Camera Module	
Raspberry Pi Camera Module
Or a USB webcam, or GoPro + HDMI capture card
Male/Female Jumper Wires	
Jumper wires (generic)	
2x6 Pin Header (5-pack)	
Digilent 2x6 Pin Header (5-pack)
Two 3-pin male-to-male headers

Software apps and online services
surrogate.tv

The range of the remote control car can be increased using the internet . We can also let anyone from any part of this world operate the car via the internet.
For this we dont need coding , but we have to use surrogate .tv
The ESC (electronic speed control)in the rc car is connected to the rasperry pi. We also use rasperry pi camera module and go pro to know the surroundings while operating the car.


PROJECT 7: DIY Arduino Turn Signal Bicycle Safety Vest

Cars and motorbikes have an indicator . Why not we have one for bicycles. The light vest consists LED strips , which act as indicators. 
the led strips can be controlled by a remote or through a gyroscopic detector.
 
 Components:
Arduino Nano R3	
JLCPCB Customized PCB	
NeoPixel Ring: WS2812 5050 RGB LED	
Adafruit NeoPixel Ring: WS2812 5050 RGB LED
HC-05 Bluetooth Module	
Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) (6 deg of freedom)	
Rechargeable Battery, 4.8 V	
Jumper wires (generic)	
Breadboard (generic)	
Pushbutton switch 12mm	
SparkFun Pushbutton switch 12mm
Software apps and online services
Arduino IDE	

LightVest is a light strip controlled by a microcontroller safely applied to a wearable fabric, such as a vest. the Bike Remote and the LED Bike Vest have two
Arduino (Microcontrollers) which communicate with each other through Bluetooth.
The LED vest works by using an Arduino to control a set of LED strips (WS2812B) based on the User’s action. 
When you turn the handlebar right the Gyroscope detects the relative change in orientation to the Right. The value ‘R’ (representing Right)
is sent to the LED Vest microcontroller via Bluetooth.The LED strip would light up the right arrows of the LED strip.

PROJECT 8:IOT based Thermal Alarm
An IoT based thermal alarm system that goes off and sends SMS when it detects a thermal anomaly.

Hardware components:
Bolt WiFi Module	
Buzzer, Piezo	
5 mm LED: Red
LED, Blue	
Temperature Sensor
(LM35)
Software apps and online services
SMS Messaging API	
Twilio SMS Messaging API

the thermal sensor range is -55 celcius to 155 celcius.
This project requires coding knowledge in python.

















